As promised, you'll see
how everything fits
together right now.
You will start by building a
cost function and then you
will use gradient descent to
optimize this cost function.
Let's take a look
at how this works.
To compute the cost,
begin by preparing
the data in batches.
Here, you have the questions,
what is your age and
how old are you?
You can see these are duplicates
because they mean
the same thing.
Can you see me and are you
seeing me are also duplicates.
Where are thou and where
are you are duplicates
too as are when is the game
and what time is the game.
With four pairs, you
have batch size of four.
Here, we will use the letter
b to stand for batch size.
Something that's
very important to
note is that each question has
its corresponding duplicates
to the left or right of it.
That is in each row,
all of the sentences in the
columns are duplicates but
you'll notice that each question
has no duplicates
above or below it.
That is for any column,
none of the rows and that's
column contain a sentence that
is a duplicate of another
sentence in that column.
This is how you
prepare the batches.
Now, let me show you how you
will want to organize
the data in this way.
Given the first batch,
you're going to run it
through this model to get
a vector v_1 with dimensions
1 row by 5 columns.
The number of columns
shown in this matrix
is equal to the dimension
of your embedding layer,
which in this case is five.
I'll refer to this dimension
of the embedding layer
as the model for each
question in the batch.
I haven't talked
about the dimension
of the embedding layer yet,
but don't worry, it will become
more clear once you're
working with the code.
The important takeaway is that
the dimension of the embedding,
the model is a parameter that
determines the dimensions
of the weights
through each layer
in the model and
thus determines the size
of the outputs vector.
The model is running
a batch size that
is greater than 1,
so the v_1 output is
actually a matrix of
stacked vectors like this.
In this visual example
there are four rows in
this matrix to indicate that
there are four observations
in this batch,
and the batch size is four.
I'll subscript the observations
in the batch as v_11,
v_12, and so on corresponding to
the vector outputs for each
question in the batch.
You'll do the same thing for
the batch of v_2 vectors.
Each question in the Batch 1,
is a duplicate of its
corresponding question in
Batch 2 but none of
the questions in Batch 1 are
duplicates of each other,
and the same applies to Batch 2.
Here for example, the 11
is a duplicate of v_21,
as are the rest of the
respective row pairs but
v_11 is not a duplicates
of any other rows in v_1.
The last step is to combine
the two branches of
the Siamese network by
calculating the
similarity between
all vector pair combinations
of v_1 with v_2.
For this example with
a batch size of 4,
you might get a matrix of
similarities that
looks like this.
The diagonal is a
key feature here.
These values are the
similarities for
all your positive examples,
the question duplicates.
Notice that all the
values are generally
greater than the numbers
in the off-diagonals.
The model is performing
as you would
expect for duplicates
questions because you
would expect the question
duplicates to have
higher similarity compared
to the non duplicates.
In the upper right
and lower left,
you have the similarities for
all the negative examples.
These are the results for
the non duplicates pairs.
Notice that most of
these numbers are lower
than the similarities that
are along the diagonal.
Also notice that you can have
negative example
question pairs that
still have a similarity
greater than zero.
The range of
similarity ranges from
negative 1 to positive 1 but
there isn't any special
requirements that
a similarity greater than
zero indicates duplicates,
or that's a similarity or
less than zero indicates
not duplicates.
What matters for a
properly functioning model
is that it generally
finds that duplicate have
a higher similarity
relative to non duplicates.
Creating non duplicate
pairs like this removes
the need for additional
non duplicates examples
in the input data,
which turns out
to be a big deal.
Instead of needing to set up
specific batches with
negative examples,
your model can learn
from them into
existing question
duplicates, batches.
Now, you could just
stop here and use
these similarities with
the triplet loss-function
you already know shown here.
Then the overall costs for
your Siamese network
will be the sum of
these individual losses
over the training sets.
Here, you can see that
superscripts i refers to
a specific training example
and there are m observations,
but there are more
techniques available.
This can vastly improve
upon model performance.
I'll show you those next.
You have now seen
how hard negative
mining is used when
computing the cost
and during training.
You only need to have
two similar texts which
you put on the diagonals,
and you use the off-diagonals
as the non-similar examples.